docs/src/guide/queries.md, before:

```@setup ex
push!(LOAD_PATH,"../../../src/")
using CancerImagingArchive
```

# Queries

Queries are useful for exploring the available imaging data.
The general hierarchy of the cancer imaging archive (TCIA) is:
```
Collection -> PatientID -> StudyInstanceUID -> SeriesInstanceUID -> SOPInstanceUID
```
To download images, the `SeriesInstanceUID` and/or `SOPInstanceUID` must be known.
The query functions are meant to help identify the relevant unique identifiers (UIDs)

Detailed information is available in the TCIA's user guide which includes a [list of available query endpoints](https://wiki.cancerimagingarchive.net/display/Public/TCIA+Programmatic+Interface+%28REST+API%29+Usage+Guide) and the [type of information returned](https://wiki.cancerimagingarchive.net/display/Public/TCIA+API+Return+Values) by each query.

!!! note

    As mentioned in the [Formats](@ref) section, each query returns either a DataFrame or a Dictionary Array. The current section will exclusively use the DataFrame output. That being said, a dictionary array can always be obtained by any of these functions by passing `format = "json"` as an input argument.

## All collections

The names of all available collections on TCIA is obtained by:
```@repl ex
collections()
```

## Imaging modalities

The imaging modalities in a specific collection and/or anatomy are listed by:
```@repl ex
modalities(collection = "TCGA-KIRP")
modalities(bodypart = "BRAIN")
modalities(collection = "CPTAC-HNSCC", bodypart = "HEAD")
```

!!! note

    Capitalization matters when passing in arguments, i.e. `bodypart = "BRAIN"` works but passing `bodypart = "brain"` will return an empty object. However, there are some cases where different versions are valid. As an example, passing `bodypart = Kidney` or `bodypart = "KIDNEY"` will both return valid (but different!) results. So although fully-capitalized body part names will work most of the time, do double-check if alternative spellings exist when using the `bodypart` argument (see next section for names)

## Anatomy/body parts

The anatomy scanned in a specific collection and/or modality are listed by:
```@repl ex
bodyparts(collection = "CPTAC-HNSCC")
bodyparts(modality = "CT")
bodyparts(collection = "Soft-tissue-Sarcoma", modality = "MR")
```
There are inter- and intra-collection variations in how body parts are named and sometimes the names are uncommon---such as "J brzuszna" in the above example which translates to "abdominal cavity".

## Manufacturers

A list of scanner manufacturers for a specific collection/modality/anatomy is obtained by
```@repl ex
manufacturers(collection = "TCGA-KICH")
manufacturers(modality = "CT")
manufacturers(bodypart = "BREAST")
```
The same manufacturer can have different names, e.g. `Philips`/`Philips Medical Systems` and `SIEMENS`/`Siemens`.

## Patients

The patients in a given collection are listed by:
```@repl ex
patients(collection = "TCGA-SARC")
```

### Patients for specific modality

To get a patients for which a specific modality was used, a slightly different function is used:
```@repl ex
patients_by_modality(collection = "TCGA-SARC", modality = "CT")
patients_by_modality(collection = "TCGA-SARC", modality = "MR")
```

!!! note

    Although the functionality of `patients_by_modality()` could be combined into the `patients()` function, they use a different query endpoint. They also return different information, i.e. `PatientSex` is only returned by `patients()` while `Modality` is only returned by `patients_by_modality()`. To keep these differences explicit, the two functions were given different names.

### Patients added after specific date

In large collections, it can be useful to query patients that were added after a date specified as YYYY-MM-DD.
This is accomplished by:
```@repl ex
newpatients(collection = "TCGA-GBM", date = "2015-01-01")
```

## Patient studies

A list of visits/studies for a given collection/patient is obtained by:
```@repl ex
studies(collection = "TCGA-THCA")
studies(patient = "TCGA-QQ-A8VF")
```

If the unique identifier (UID) for a study is known (a.k.a. StudyInstanceUID), then that can also be used
```@repl ex
studies(study = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.3023.4024.298690116465423805879206377806")
```

### Patient studies added after specific data

A list of visits/studies that were added after some date, formatted by YYYY-MM-DD, can be obtained by:
```@repl ex
newstudies(collection="TCGA-GBM", date="2015-01-01")
```

## Imaging series

Each patient study consists of one or more imaging series which can be obtained by:
```@repl ex
series(collection = "TCGA-THCA")
series(patient = "TCGA-QQ-A8VF")
series(study = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.3023.4024.298690116465423805879206377806")
series(modality = "CT", manufacturer = "TOSHIBA")
series(bodypart = "EXTREMITY")
```
This query's importance is hinted by the smorgasbord of parameters it accepts.
That's because the query returns the SeriesInstanceUID which is needed to download images.

!!! note

    Although the above example only shows the SeriesInstanceUID, the output actually contains more information which is not shown because there isn't enough screen space. This is why the top of each output states that it is a `Nx15 DataFrames` object where 14 columns are not being printed. The entire table could be printed by:
    ```julia
    series_dataframe = series(patient = "TCGA-QQ-A8VF");
    show(series_dataframe, allrows = true, allcols = true)
    ```

### Imaging series size

The size (in bytes) and number of images for a given imaging series is given by
```@repl ex
series_size(series = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.4591.4001.241972527061347495484079664948")
```

## Service-Object Pairs (SOP)

Each imaging series consists of one or more images, each of which have a service-object-pair unique identifier (SOPInstanceUID).
These can be listed by
```@repl ex
sop(series = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.4591.4001.241972527061347495484079664948")
```
These identifiers are useful for accessing a specific image without having to download the entire imaging series.

Commit message:

Refactor tests. Add note about csv/json type differences.

docs/src/guide/queries.md, after:

```@setup ex
push!(LOAD_PATH,"../../../src/")
using CancerImagingArchive
```

# Queries

Queries are useful for exploring the available imaging data.
The general hierarchy of the cancer imaging archive (TCIA) is:
```
Collection -> PatientID -> StudyInstanceUID -> SeriesInstanceUID -> SOPInstanceUID
```
To download images, the `SeriesInstanceUID` and/or `SOPInstanceUID` must be known.
The query functions are meant to help identify the relevant unique identifiers (UIDs)

Detailed information is available in the TCIA's user guide which includes a [list of available query endpoints](https://wiki.cancerimagingarchive.net/display/Public/TCIA+Programmatic+Interface+%28REST+API%29+Usage+Guide) and the [type of information returned](https://wiki.cancerimagingarchive.net/display/Public/TCIA+API+Return+Values) by each query.

!!! note

    As mentioned in the [Formats](@ref) section, each query returns either a DataFrame or a Dictionary Array. The current section will exclusively use the DataFrame output. That being said, a dictionary array can always be obtained by any of these functions by passing `format = "json"` as an input argument.

## All collections

The names of all available collections on TCIA is obtained by:
```@repl ex
collections()
```

## Imaging modalities

The imaging modalities in a specific collection and/or anatomy are listed by:
```@repl ex
modalities(collection = "TCGA-KIRP")
modalities(bodypart = "BRAIN")
modalities(collection = "CPTAC-HNSCC", bodypart = "HEAD")
```

!!! note

    Capitalization matters when passing in arguments, i.e. `bodypart = "BRAIN"` works but passing `bodypart = "brain"` will return an empty object. However, there are some cases where different versions are valid. As an example, passing `bodypart = Kidney` or `bodypart = "KIDNEY"` will both return valid (but different!) results. So although fully-capitalized body part names will work most of the time, do double-check if alternative spellings exist when using the `bodypart` argument (see next section for names)

## Anatomy/body parts

The anatomy scanned in a specific collection and/or modality are listed by:
```@repl ex
bodyparts(collection = "CPTAC-HNSCC")
bodyparts(modality = "CT")
bodyparts(collection = "Soft-tissue-Sarcoma", modality = "MR")
```
There are inter- and intra-collection variations in how body parts are named and sometimes the names are uncommon---such as "J brzuszna" in the above example which translates to "abdominal cavity".

## Manufacturers

A list of scanner manufacturers for a specific collection/modality/anatomy is obtained by
```@repl ex
manufacturers(collection = "TCGA-KICH")
manufacturers(modality = "CT")
manufacturers(bodypart = "BREAST")
```
The same manufacturer can have different names, e.g. `Philips`/`Philips Medical Systems` and `SIEMENS`/`Siemens`.

## Patients

The patients in a given collection are listed by:
```@repl ex
patients(collection = "TCGA-SARC")
```

### Patients for specific modality

To get a patients for which a specific modality was used, a slightly different function is used:
```@repl ex
patients_by_modality(collection = "TCGA-SARC", modality = "CT")
patients_by_modality(collection = "TCGA-SARC", modality = "MR")
```

!!! note

    Although the functionality of `patients_by_modality()` could be combined into the `patients()` function, they use a different query endpoint. They also return different information, i.e. `PatientSex` is only returned by `patients()` while `Modality` is only returned by `patients_by_modality()`. To keep these differences explicit, the two functions were given different names.

### Patients added after specific date

In large collections, it can be useful to query patients that were added after a date specified as YYYY-MM-DD.
This is accomplished by:
```@repl ex
newpatients(collection = "TCGA-GBM", date = "2015-01-01")
```

## Patient studies

A list of visits/studies for a given collection/patient is obtained by:
```@repl ex
studies(collection = "TCGA-THCA")
studies(patient = "TCGA-QQ-A8VF")
```

If the unique identifier (UID) for a study is known (a.k.a. StudyInstanceUID), then that can also be used
```@repl ex
studies(study = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.3023.4024.298690116465423805879206377806")
```

### Patient studies added after specific data

A list of visits/studies that were added after some date, formatted by YYYY-MM-DD, can be obtained by:
```@repl ex
newstudies(collection="TCGA-GBM", date="2015-01-01")
```

## Imaging series

Each patient study consists of one or more imaging series which can be obtained by:
```@repl ex
series(collection = "TCGA-THCA")
series(patient = "TCGA-QQ-A8VF")
series(study = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.3023.4024.298690116465423805879206377806")
series(modality = "CT", manufacturer = "TOSHIBA")
series(bodypart = "EXTREMITY")
```
This query's importance is hinted by the smorgasbord of parameters it accepts.
That's because the query returns the SeriesInstanceUID which is needed to download images.

!!! note

    Although the above example only shows the SeriesInstanceUID, the output actually contains more information which is not shown because there isn't enough screen space. This is why the top of each output states that it is a `Nx16 DataFrames` object where 15 columns are not being printed. The entire table could be printed by:
    ```julia
    series_dataframe = series(patient = "TCGA-QQ-A8VF");
    show(series_dataframe, allrows = true, allcols = true)
    ```

!!! warning

    Passing `format = "json"` will result in one fewer column. This is because the `AnnotationsFlag` field is returned for CSV output but not for JSON. 

### Imaging series size

The size (in bytes) and number of images for a given imaging series is given by
```@repl ex
series_size(series = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.4591.4001.241972527061347495484079664948")
```

!!! warning

    It is recommended that `series_size()` should **not** be used with `format = json`. This is because the json version interprets the `TotalSizeInBytes` as string/text rather than a number.

## Service-Object Pairs (SOP)

Each imaging series consists of one or more images, each of which have a service-object-pair unique identifier (SOPInstanceUID).
These can be listed by
```@repl ex
sop(series = "1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.4591.4001.241972527061347495484079664948")
```
These identifiers are useful for accessing a specific image without having to download the entire imaging series.
